Italy has reported to the highest one
day death toll from coronavirus than any
other country official said nearly 500
people died on Wednesday videos posted
on social media are said to show
military trucks in the city of Bergamo
preparing to transport the dead to
nearby cities more Therese and
crematoriums in Bergamo have run out of
space medical teams from China have
arrived to help authorities fight the
virus the governor of Italy's
hardest-hit region made this appeal to
medical students and retired health care
workers to decrease the media to two
questions I want to appeal to all of
these doctors and nurses make yourselves
available and lend us a hand in these
trying times in my opinion through the
corporation and availability of these
professional health workers we can find
important answers to the challenges we
face important
let's bring in journalists Hema Gupta
who's standing by for us in Rome Seema
dramatic scenes there in northern Italy
the governor calling for help does he
get the support he needs well that's
what the governor if Lombardi is
actually saying I mean he's made it very
clear
look warning that at this stage we may
reach a situation soon where they won't
be able to treat the sick at all and
it's caught he's calling on the
residents in Lombardy but also all
around the country to essentially stay
at home and that's the message of the
prime minister as well he gave an
interview to a local daily here
essentially saying that the country and
the measures that they're going to take
they expect them to get even stricter a
complete block is what they're
suggesting the Sports Minister has
already said that he is looking towards
the idea of stopping all outdoor
activity that means no more and he walks
off or jogging in the park simply
because they need to stay
home in order to limit the spread of
mobit 19 there is also work that the
school closure will be extended beyond
April 3rd and that's because also we've
seen 43,000 violations of the lockdown
measure in the space of one week and the
authorities and officials I'm flooring
people to listen to the rules stay at
home practice social distancing only
leave home when it's absolutely
necessary they're very concerned as we
as you've said we've seen these dramatic
and immense numbers of the dead just
four hundred and seventy five dead with
COBIT 19 in the space of 24 hours and
it's because of that I think that the
authorities believe that the next week
or so is very crucial the peak infection
rate still has not been reached here in
Italy now as you say I mean people there
also where you are err further south are
faced with those incredibly dramatic
images from northern Italy will that
help to convince people to actually
adhere to what the authorities tell them
to do or not to do well that's what the
authorities are hoping for that's what
the doctors are employing we see
frontline medical professionals going on
social media imploring everyone showing
them we go to work to save lives you do
your part stay at home that seems to be
the message that they're sending out
here in Rome for the most part you do
see people adhering to this it's
frustrating for people to be stuck at
home we're now into day nine off the
lockdown families at home with their
children having to deal with work on the
one hand as well as dealing with their
children school work trying to juggle
all of that and manage it's not easy but
if everyone does their part as everyone
keeps saying they we're all in the same
boat and so if everyone does their part
this will help limit the spread not just
up north but also for the rest of the
country that is also preparing for a
rise in infections now you talk about
the doctors the military has been
brought in to help with that but also
are there fast-track the graduation of
medical students
all right Seema Gupta they're reporting
for us from Rome
you so much britain has also stepped up
its response to the coronavirus the
Prime Minister announced that up to
20,000 military personnel will be put on
standby the United Kingdom is bracing
for the stringent measures that will
come into effect on Friday in addition
to schools dozens of underground
stations will be closed other public
transport services will also be reduced
the government has advised people not to
go to pubs and restaurants though an
official ban is not in effect at cross
over now to London where DW
correspondent bigot mass is covering
developments for us big at London of
course is a big huge city and it's now
facing strict containment measures which
the military could help to enforce how a
London is coping well there is a sense
of doom I would say across London
because I think a lot of people are
expecting this to get even tighter and
maybe into a complete lockdown at least
this is the speculation in the media and
on social media so we might really see
Londoners being confined to their homes
and what you see at the moment is that
people are trying to go and shop as much
as I can so if you go into the
supermarket in the afternoon the shelves
are really really empty because people
are expecting that there will be
shortages in the future of course the
authorities are saying it's because the
demand is so much it's not that there is
no supply of essential items like toilet
paper or even food it's because people
are buying too much and they should stop
it but at the moment it doesn't seem
that people are adhering to this advice
because people are frankly very nervous
of what's to come
all right well people not following
advice we've seen that across Europe now
and as of tomorrow schools all over the
country will be closed dear Prime
Minister Boris Johnson take this step
too late perhaps as his critics claim
yes there has been a lot of criticism
towards the government there was for
example the editor-in-chief of The
Lancet a leading medical paper and he
has urged for weeks
look at what's happening in other
countries look at what's happening in
Italy and just act earlier and be
tougher now the school closures come
fairly later only are in effect as of
tomorrow even though some schools have
already closed now voluntarily but
officially as of tomorrow the schools
will be closed the children of public
health workers of health workers enough
of other people who are necessary for
the infrastructure for example food
delivery they will be able to go into
some school so there will be some sort
of provision but it's coming fairly late
and a lot of people hundreds of
scientists in fact have urged the
government over the weekend to be strict
and yes now finally it is happening now
I pick it master reporting in London
thank you here in Germany Chancellor
Angela Merkel has addressed the nation
in an unprecedented televised speech
saying the country faces its biggest
challenge since the second world war
this as the country's top disease
control official warns that Germany
could be dealing with 10 million
coronavirus infections in the coming
months if its citizens don't adhere to
measures outlined by the government
Berlin's most famous locations should be
bustling with tourists at this time of
year but due to covered 19 they are
currently surrounded by empty streets
it's also highly unusual for a German
Chancellor to make a televised address
but Angela Merkel said these are
extraordinary times and she urged all
citizens of Germany to seriously
consider their own obligations to
society the situation is serious take it
seriously since German unification know
since the Second World War there has
been no challenge to our nation that has
demanded such a degree of common and
United action and calm the Bundesliga
she said Germany was in a good position
but warned that it could not be
complacent
George Lanka then
Germany has an excellent health system
perhaps one of the best in the world we
can take some confidence from that but
our hospitals too would be completely
over stretched if too many patients with
a severe corona infection were to be
admitted in a short space of time people
in Berlin have been waiting in long
queues to be tested for the covered
knighting virus and there have been
reports from other states of people
having to wait in lines for long periods
before they were finally tested across
the country
Germans are having their nerves tested
new board regulations on the Polish
border are causing massive traffic jams
as far as the eye can see in many places
authorities have begun extending police
patrols to enforce new regulations on
which shops are allowed to remain open
cultural establishments schools and
nurseries are supposed to be closed
along with most known grocery shops our
officers are on patrol around the clock
with two groups of 100 each in addition
we have undercover police officers that
their only mission is to enforce the
regulations so far the German government
has resisted placing a nationwide curfew
such as in Spain France and Italy but
that could soon change countries
including Germany are stepping up
preparations to avoid the kinds of
scenes that have been playing out in the
hospitals of northern Italy DW has been
looking at the measures being taken in
Berlin to ensure a large number of
patients can be treated if and when the
situation arises a new hospital is being
erected at an Exhibition Centre in
Berlin one of Germany's latest measures
to tackle the pandemic it's supposed to
be able to treat a thousand people set
up with the help of the German army in
case we have shortages we want to be
able to avoid having serious bottlenecks
by having something up our sleeves a
clinic which still has capacity this is
just a precautionary measure the
infection rate in Berlin is growing
maybe this extra capacity
might not even be enough here at the
Robert Koch Institute an ever-increasing
number of positive cases are being
tallied up just how long can the virus
be kept under control
the answer is sobering infant Yavin one
discipline if we're talking about years
that this pandemic might take to go once
around the world pandemics traveling
waves we know that how quick these waves
are and when these waves that we're
speaking about come where 60 to 70
percent of the people around the world
would become infected that will take
years in my view I'd say two years from
your swih yard a crisis is coming our
way but we've been forewarned that makes
it easier says the head of the Harville
her clinic in Berlin h-how'd mutters
says they're well prepared they've
recently received 10 extra respirators
and the hospital could increase its
capacity threefold if things got really
bad furthermore he's also readied her
staff we've also retrained anesthetists
and doctors from other specialties who
haven't done intensive care duties for a
long time now so that we've managed to
get a further 20 to 30 percent extra
backup in personnel and we could also
get more from outpatient care under
border Austin ambolyn tonight the daily
numbers show that up till now there
hasn't been a single person with the
coronavirus ending up in intensive care
there however it's obvious that things
won't stay that way statistics just in
show what individual hospitals across
the country can handle and where beds
are available that probably couldn't
have come at a better time in fact the
head of the German Hospital Federation
says there's reason for both caution and
reassurance again this is our findings
show that about 15% of patients become
so sick that they have to be treated in
hospital four percent of patients in
fact and then have to be treated in
intensive care and put on ventilators
most no one part Madhvi had listened
furthermore the government has planned
that in extreme situations even hotels
and rehab centers could be transformed
into treatment areas if there's a bed
shortage what could be a major turning
point in the drive to contain the
coronavirus
on Wednesday China the epicenter of the
original outbreak reported no new local
cases of the infection for the first
time since he began recording them in
January
however there were 34 new infections
imported from abroad which threatens the
progress China has made Beijing in post
stringent restrictions on travel and
movement in an attempt to prevent the
virus from spreading the total number of
confirmed coronavirus infections in
mainland China stands at almost 80 1000
now Taiwan has managed to keep its
infection rate far lower the neighboring
countries despite its proximity to China
where the corona virus originated weeks
ago the island was expected to become
the second worst head region after China
but that didn't happen so what did I
Taiwan do to change the narrative and
how is it coping with the ongoing
pandemic GWS Phoebe Kong sent us the
latest from Taiwan surgical masks and
goggles have become part of dr. Ho's
uniform since the corona virus outbreak
began he was among the first group of
doctors in Taiwan to treat suspected
patients that was back in January when
the virus first spread from China across
the Strait yattawan
song song court hours Taiwan is
experienced in understanding China we
know what is reliable and when we should
be skeptical and because Taiwan has long
been isolated from the international
community we must take more steps ahead
of the crisis and use her own judgment
ethnicity she cities in China this is
where he ended up sleeping adore Mari
next to the hospital set aside for
medical staff like him for Taiwan
vigilance as the treatment for a disease
with no cure
Sonia it was hard to identify
misinformation at first I was scared of
spreading the virus to my family I think
this has to be a collective effort if
each of us takes very strict precautions
ourselves it eases the burden on the
healthcare system
other than medics and military students
and teachers at high school level and
below are now banned from overseas
travel foreigners are denied entry but
containing the virus is not only about
border control communities have found
themselves on the frontline district
officer of the local government Gary
Quan monitors individuals under 14 day
home quarantine one of his duties is to
take care of the daily needs such as
delivering fresh food we hope to make it
easier for quarantine people to stay at
home to reduce the risk of contagion if
anyone leaves the apartment will be
alerted by text message and call the
police he or she may be find quarantine
and Taiwan may feel service-based but
it's also stringent individuals are
under surveillance telecom providers are
cooperating to enable the government to
track people via their mobile phones
health officials believe technology
helps contain concern and prevent panic
one example is the face mask rationing
system where people can place their
order and check availability online new
technology helps us to systemize
containment policies in a transparent
way it helps a public build up a sense
of trust in the government because
they're well informed about the
situation science America
taiwan's next step is to broaden its
testing regimen
NEADS out you're quiet eels anyone with
overseas travel history fever or
respiratory symptoms is eligible for
testing according to research the spread
of the virus can be largely contained if
60% of infection chains are broken we're
trying our best to achieve that the
island remains concerned about a
potential massive outbreak while waiting
for a vaccine community and
government-led containment is the only
way anyone knows how to fight the virus
let's have a look at some of the other
corona related developments around the
world New Zealand and Australia are
closing their borders to non-residents
and non-citizens
to protect their nations from the virus
Japan's deputy prime minister says
holding the Summer Olympics would make
no sense if countries can send athletes
but the government says it is still
working to hold the games as scheduled
France has reported another spike in
coronavirus deaths its death toll jumped
by 89 to 264 people on Wednesday and
Russia has confirmed its first death the
patient was a 79 year old woman who died
in Moscow from UNAM pneumonia the
European Central Bank has announced a
750 billion euro bond buying program to
help stabilize markets reeling from the
fallout of the corona virus outbreak
it's just one of many stimulus plans
announced by policymakers across the
developed world however investors are
still uneasy and stocks keep tumbling
the carnage has returned to the Asian
markets the region's main indexes are
all trading in the red stocks have
continued to extend their earlier losses
this week after a moderate reprieve for
some markets Wednesday investors in Asia
appear to be taking cues from Wall
Street
the Dow Industrials index plunged more
than 6% the market decline continues
even as lawmakers take further action to
support individuals and businesses on
Wednesday US lawmakers approved a
hundred billion dollar package for free
testing sick pay and paid family leave
this is not some rescue following risky
business decisions nobody thinks any of
this is the fault of small businesses so
while I will support the House bill in
order to secure some emergency relief
for some American workers
I will not adjourn the Senate until we
had passed a far bolder package it must
include significant relief for small
businesses all across our country and
across the pond European policymakers
also announced further stimulus measures
after an emergency meeting Wednesday
evening ECB says it's setting aside 750
billion euros for bond buying to help
ease the effects of a covered 19:00
pandemic still markets are falling
investors are not convinced by the
efforts of lawmakers
GWS Chelsea Delaney keeps an eye on the
Frankfurt Stock Exchange Chelsea so far
no aid package has managed to lift the
markets is the ECB stimulus going to
make a difference this is obviously
extremely necessary to keep money
flowing to governments and and to
businesses within the EU we did you see
the DAX open and a very volatile trade
spike a bit higher but I think investors
are asking the question can any package
from a central bank from the government
really do that much to offset the impact
of this enormous economic shock were
facing the ECB has estimated that growth
in the EU could contract by 5% this year
JPMorgan has estimated that US growth
could fall 15 percent in the in the
second quarter so against that these
packages can cushion the blow but it can
only really offset a little bit of the
of the damage that we're seeing
I think investors are really trying to
settle in for a longer period of
volatility one trader has called this
sort of like the panic buying we're
seeing in grocery stores where investors
are just selling everything and trying
to port up on cash
Chelsea Delaney in Frankfurt thank you
so much the CEO of Lufthansa has warned
that the coronavirus is jeopardizing the
future of aviation Carsten Spohr said
governments may need to save the entire
industry from the fallout of the
pandemic he added that Europe's largest
airline is in good financial shape for
now international industry group i
oughtta estimates up to 200 billion
dollars are needed to help cushion the
blow of the outbreak